# SunriseKingdomWorkshop

This is the repo for holding the code for the sunrise kingdom CMS Crosslab Workshop.

## Basic Terminal Navigation

To run anything in this project you want to be familiar with navigating your computer using the terminal. The terminal is basically another way of controlling your computer without your mouse. Before Apple invented the mouse and the desktop this is all computers ever did!

Firstly we need to open the terminal application on our computer which you can find using spotlight and searching for terminal. Once you've got it open you'll find you can type in to an empty text field. By typing in commands and pressing Enter you can tell your computer to do different things. Mostly we'll be using the command line to navigate to folders and run commands. To navigate to folders we want to use 2 commands: `cd` which stands for "Change Directory" and `ls` which stands for "List". By using `cd` you cna change which directory you are in and by using `ls` you can list the files and directories within your current directory. If you want a primer on how to navigate the command line one is available [here](https://learn.co/lessons/bash-navigation-osx).

## Initial setup

To use this project we need to do a little bit of setup. Firstly we need to install node.js which is a javascript library which is extremely powerful. We won't be using it for this project directly but we will be using utilities that it provides. You can find instructions on how to install it [here](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Once that's installed you can use npm which is another command whcih stands for "Node Package Manager" to install another command line tool called http-server.

This let's us run an http server locally which basically means we can view a local website!

To do this you need to type:

`npm install http-server -g`

The -g means you're installing it globally so you can use it within any folder. Once that's done you can navigate to your p5 folder and type:

`http-server -c-1`

This will start an http server within your p5 folder with the local port 8080. to view it open any web browser (chrome is a good one) and go to the url: `http://localhost:8080/`. You'll notice that this terminal now is filled with messages. You'll need a new Terminal window to run more command line commands because this one is now busy running the server.

This will show you the contents of your folders within the p5 folder. You can click on any of the individual folders to see your p5 sketches.

## Folders

### cppExamples

This holds some examples in C++ of how to do very basic things. We'll start off with just a plain HelloWorold project.

To run the HelloWorld project you need to compile it using the command line. Compiling is basically translating our code from C++ in to a language the machine can understand (called Machine code).

Once you're in the correct directory in the terminal you need to type the following command to compile your application:

`g++ HelloWorld.cpp -o hello`

This will compile your application and saved the compiled application as a second file called "hello" because we specified that as the name. g++ is the name of the compiler, HelloWorld.cpp is the name of the file to be compiled, -o means "The next thing I type will be the name of my output file" and hello is thereby the name we have chosen for our output file.

To run your application once it's been compiled just type the following in to the command line:

`./hello`

We can make this work with any basic cpp file. If you want to make changes to the cpp file simply ammend the file, save it, and compile it via the command line again using the above command. It will automatically overwrite the previous file. When you're writing code you might make errors which means compiling it might fail. These are called "compile errors" and will be reported to you when you compile so you can fix any mistakes in your code.

### node_modules

This file is automatically generated when we run the command:

`npm install`

It holds all of our npm modules to run node commands. We won't ever need to use it.

### p5

This is out project file. Inside is a full installation of p5.js which you can also get from [here](https://p5js.org/download/). Within this project there are several example projects labelled with the prefix test_XXXXXXX. there are three other folders which are used by p5.js: addons, libs and shared. You can ignore these. Finally to get any examples that load images to work you will need to create a folder titled assets if one is not already there within the p5 folder. Inside assets you need to unzip the SKWorkshopImages folder so the folder structure looks like p5>assets>SKWorkshopImages>[lots of images].

In order to run the projects you need to have installed http-server as described above. navigate to the p5 folder in the command line and type:

`http-server -c-1`

Make sure you run it **IN THE P5 FOLDER** not in your example folder.

This starts the http server and allows you to view your sketches. Just click on the folder in the window that you want to view and you can see your awesome work! If you have any troubles you cna try this [guide](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/wiki/Local-server) written by the people who made p5.js. We're using option 2 but the other options should work just as well. They have a full guide for setting up p5.js [here](https://p5js.org/get-started/)

We're going to use Sublime Text 3 as our IDE which you can download from [here](https://www.sublimetext.com/).

### SunriseRainbow

This is a project written in C++ using openFrameworks. We aren't going to use it for the first lesson but may jump in to it for the second lecture. If you're interested in giving it a whirl you can check out openFrameworks [here](https://openframeworks.cc/download/) This was built with version 0.9.8 but should work with 0.10.0.

### utils

This folder includes utility files written in Javascript which I used to sort and classify my image files before the course. I have left them in so you can read them and have a look at the structure of a standard node.js file if you're interested, however they are advanced and now that I've used them we don't need to use them anymore!


